What's up, my friend? This is the Life in English podcast.
And I'm your sensei, Tony Kaizen. And in this episode,
you're going to learn the best way to deal with annoying
people.
Audio clip:
"If only people are less irritating and annoying, then the
world will be a much better place. However, annoyance is not
a trait someone possesses. It is actually a response which I
have. In other words, it is not accurate for me to say, 'You
are annoying,' when I actually mean, 'I am annoyed.'
Annoyance is actually an emotional indicator, revealing that
others have fall short of the standard of my desires. The
key to dealing with your feelings of annoyance is to
distinguish between personal preferences and matters of
principles, between inconvenience and matters of conviction.
If you do not know when to be flexible and when to be firm,
it is no wonder that you are constantly annoyed with people
and with life. Next time you feel annoyed, don't let it lead
you to judging others, but use it as an opportunity to
examine your own heart's intentions. Think about it."
Alright, my friends. Now I just wanna explain a couple of
keywords and phrases to help you sound more natural in your
next conversation, alright? So the first word I want to
explain is "annoyance". Annoyance is "the feeling or the
state of being annoyed". So what you...you feel annoyance or
you feel annoyed when someone is annoying you. Hopefully
that makes sense. Now, another meaning of annoyance is
something or someone that annoys you. Right? Or a nuisance.
So somebody can be an annoyance or this thing can be an
annoyance, which means someone or something that annoys
people. Probably you, in this case, right? Next.
The word "trait". T-r-a-i-t.
Trait. This word means, "a distinguishing quality or
characteristic, typically one belonging to a person," right?
So "annoying" is not a trait. It's not something that people
possess. It's really, what you mean to say is you feel
annoyed, which is a state of being, and it's about you, not
the thing that you see as annoying. Hopefully that makes
sense, right? So the next word is "accurate". I believe he
said something like, "It's not accurate to say you are
annoying. I should say I feel or I am annoyed." And
"accurate" just means "correct" in all details, or "precise"
is another word that you can use. Now the next word I want
to explain is "indicator". And this just means, "a thing,
especially a trend or a fact that indicates the state or
level of something." Now, this dictionary definition, I
don't know if it's the clearest thing in the world. So an
indicator is typically a thing, a fact or a piece of
information that lets you know or gives you information
about a specific situation or topic or subject. Like, for
example, if you can understand comedy and jokes in a foreign
language, that's an indicator, that's a sign, that's a bit
of information that lets you know you're starting to reach
an advanced level. You see what I'm saying? Alright. So the
next word is "revealing". And this just means, "making
interesting or significant information known, especially
about a person's attitude or character." So if a piece of
information is revealing, if a situation is revealing, it
means through that information or that situation, you end up
discovering something important or useful, right? Because
"to reveal something" means to kind of take it out from the
shadows and put it in the light for it to be seen. You see
what I'm saying? So if something is revealing, you can have
that image in your mind of this information or this person
or situation taking this hidden piece of information out
from the darkness and into the light so you can see it. I
hope that makes sense to you. Alright. Next on the list is
"falling short" and the phrasal verb is "fall short" or the
expression, let's say, is to "fall short". And what that
means is "to fail to reach your target or to fail to meet
someone's expectations." So if you fall short of my
expectations, it means you do not reach them. You didn't
get...you weren't able to reach the level or the standard or
the expectation I set for you. That's what it means to fall
short. Alright.
Next is "standard". Now, you might know this word; it's not
necessarily advanced, but in this case, "standard" means "a
principle of conduct informed by notions of honor and
decency." So it's like, the set of guidelines or rules or a
code that you have a particular philosophy and way of being
that you have. That's your standard of being, right? So just
because somebody doesn't meet your particular standard,
which is yours, it doesn't mean that they are annoying. It
just means you are annoyed because somebody has not met your
standards. But it's not about them. It's about you, right?
That's the idea that I understood at least. Okay, so the
next word on the list is "distinguish". Distinguish just
means to perceive or point out a difference, to notice the
difference, or to be able to differentiate two things, two
or more things, let's say. So you need to be able to
distinguish an annoying person from you feeling annoyed. You
need to be able to differentiate your expectations from
people's responsibility to meet those expectations. Those
are two completely different things and you need to be able
to distinguish or differentiate them. Right? Okay. Next is
"matters", m-a-t-t-e-r-s, matters.
And this word has multiple meanings. But in this context, a
"matter" is "an affair or a situation under consideration".
In other words, it's a topic or...or just a situation in
general. So if it's a "matter of principles", you can also
say it's a "question of principle". It's a...a situation
that deals with or that is related to principle. So if this
is a "matter of life and death", it means it's a "situation
that involves life and death". You see what I'm saying? It's
all about that specifically. Hopefully that makes sense.
Alright? Now, the next word is "inconvenience". And this
just means, "trouble or difficulty caused to one's personal
requirements or comfort". So if something is inconvenient,
it basically makes you uncomfortable for some reason, not
just physically or emotionally, it could be any form of
discomfort. So, for example, you might be talking with your
friends at the park and I might inconvenience you all by
stopping your conversation to try and sell you something.
It's like you're at the park just trying to enjoy the day,
hang out with your friends, it's your only day off this
week, you don't want somebody trying to sell you some shit
at the park. That's an inconvenience. It's ruining your good
time, your comfortable time with your friends, you know?
Alright, the next word is "conviction". And conviction is
just "a firmly held belief or opinion". That's all it means.
So if you feel conviction, it means you feel, uh, what's the
word I can use? You feel very confident in whatever it is
that you believe. You feel conviction. You feel certain of
what it is you believe. Basically, that's what it means,
okay? Now the next word is "flexible" and this word can
change a little bit depending on the context, because you
have physically flexible like people that do yoga. I have so
much respect for people that do yoga. Ever since I tried
yoga and found out like how difficult that shit actually is.
But anyway, "flexible". Physically, you can stretch in, you
know, strange ways and you can put your body in very
unnatural positions because you can stretch your limbs and
body parts, you know, more than the average person. You are
flexible. You're not stiff and stuck like a machine or a
robot, you see what I'm saying? But in this context,
"flexible" just means, "to be ready and able to change or
adapt to different circumstances or a different situation".
You see what I'm saying? You can "roll with the punches", as
we say. That's another expression, which basically just
means you can adapt quickly, right? So we're in this
situation, but bam, something changes and immediately, "I'm
not gonna cry, I'm not gonna panic, I'm not gonna get
stressed. I can just keep moving. I go with the flow", you
know, "I roll with the punches. I'm very flexible. I'm
adaptable." Okay, next...it is no matter that...or excuse
me, I said that completely wrong. Next on the list is "it is
no wonder that" and this expression is used to say that
"it's not surprising at all or it's not unexpected at all".
So I think he said something like, "If you don't know when
to be flexible and firm, it's no wonder that you're
constantly annoyed with people and with life." So when he
says, "it's no wonder..." Let me just replace that phrase
with...with another definition. I could say, "If you don't
know how to be flexible and firm or when to be flexible and
firm," you know, "it's no surprise that you're always
annoyed with people in life." You see what I'm saying?
That's what it means when somebody says, "Oh, no wonder."
It's like, "Oh, it's no surprise." Like, "obviously", you
see what I'm saying? Alright. Next on the list is "lead to".
Let me go back and see exactly what he said. "The next time
you feel annoyed, don't let it lead to you judging others,"
that's what he said. So "lead to" in this case means "to
result in something". So the next time you feel annoyed,
don't let that feeling of annoyance result in you judging
other people. Don't let your judgment of other people be the
result of you feeling annoyed. Choose to react a different
way to that feeling is the idea, okay? And last but not
least on the list is "examine", and you probably know what
this means. But just in case you don't, it just means "to
inspect in great detail". If you examine your heart's
intentions, it means you take a real hard look at your own
heart, at yourself, and try to find all the details and
things that need to be changed, right? You're investigating
something thoroughly. That's the idea of "examine", okay?
So, my friend, I want you to remember that you will always,
always, always come across difficult people and situations
in this life, and you have absolutely no control over that.
I know it can be hard sometimes, but I found that if you can
manage to detach yourself from your idea of the way things
and people should be and just accept the way things are,
life gets so much easier, simpler, and less stressful. I'm
obviously not saying you should always do nothing. There are
times when someone or something is bothering you and you
need to do something in order to make it stop. I'm just
saying that accepting what you can't control leads to inner
peace. And we all want inner peace, right? I'd like
to think so. So, my friend, I'd like to thank you for your
time and your attention. I really hope you enjoyed this
episode of The Life in English podcast. I'm your host, Tony
Kaizen, and I will talk to you soon. Peace!